.TH bas2x11basic 1 19-Sep-2003 "Version 1.09" "ANSI-Basic to X11-Basic converter"
.SH NAME
bas2x11basic \- ANSI-Basic to X11-Basic converter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bas2x11basic
.RI "[ " option " ] " <filename>

.SH DESCRIPTION

X11-Basic is a dialect of the BASIC programming language with graphics
capability that integrates features like shell scripting, cgi-Programming and
full graphical visualisation into the easy to learn basic language on modern
computers.

X11-Basic is a structured programming language. Structure is a form of visual
and functional encapsulation in which multipleline sections of program look and
act like single units. The beginning and end of blocks are marked by descriptive
keyword delimiters. Lines within blocks are generally indented to make the block
visible. Most important: X11-Basic does not use line numbers.

.IR bas2x11basic
can be used to make X11-Basic template programs out of ANSI basic Files. It
helps convertig old (real) Basic Programs with line numbers and multiple
commands per line to the X11-Basic structure. Because there are so many
different BASIC Version aroud, in most cases you will have to edit these files
produced manually. But most of the work will already have been done by this
converter.

.B For a desciption of the X11-basic language and Usage of the interpreter see
.I xbasic(1).

.SH Filenames

bas2x11basic processes input files with extention .bas. The default output
filename is b.bas.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-o " file
Place output in file \c
.I file\c
\&. This applies regardless to whatever
sort of output bas2x11basic is producing.
If you do not specify `\|\c
.B \-o\c
\&\|', the default is to use
`\|\c
.B b.bas\c
\&\|'

.SS \--version
shows version, program and other information and exits
.SS -h --help
print a short help

For detailed help and description of the implemented basic commands take a look
at the README file. 


.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
bas2x11basic ansibasic.bas
    produces an output file b.bas

bas2x11basic ansibasic.bas -o newname.bas
    produces an output file newname.bas
.fi

You can find some samples of former ANSI basic programs in 
.I /usr/share/doc/packages/X11Basic/examples.

.SH The ANSI Basic to X11-Basic converter

Actually this converter is not yet complete. Further improvenents may be applied
in future. Please let me know about ANSI-Basic programs which will not be
converted.

.SH VERSION
Page was created for V.1.09

.SH BUG REPORTS 

If you find a bug in the ANSI Basic to X11-Basic converter, you should report
it. But first, you should make sure that it really is a bug, and that it appears
in the latest version of the X11-Basic package that you have.

Once you have determined that a bug actually exists, mail a bug report to
kollo@users.sourceforge.net. If you have a fix, you are welcome to mail that as
well! Suggestions may be mailed to the X11-Basic bug tracking system.

Comments and bug reports concerning this manual page should be directed to
kollo@users.sourceforge.net.

.SH AUTHOR
Markus Hoffmann <kollo@users.sourceforge.net>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997-2003 Markus Hoffmann <kollo@users.sourceforge.net>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

.SH SEE ALSO
xbasic(1), xb2c(1)
