.TH DOOCSX11BASIC 1 10-Aug-2007 "Version 1.14" "DOOCS Basic Interpreter"
.SH NAME

doocsxbasic \- Basic interpreter for DOOCS (Distributed oo Control System)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B doocsxbasic
[--eval <expression>] [-e <command>] [-l] [<filename>]

.SH DESCRIPTION

X11-Basic is a comprehensive non-standard Basic interpreter with full X 
capability that integrates features like shell scripting, cgi-Programming and 
full graphical visualisation into the easy to learn basic language on modern 
computers.

DOOCS is a distributed control system that was developed for HERA and TTF
applications at DESY. It is an object oriented system design from the device
server level up to the operator console. The communication is established by a
standard set of data and address objects which are transferred by Remote
Procedure Calls (ONC RPC) or other protocols.

Doocsxbasic is a modification which combines the DOOCS functionality with the
X11-Basic interpreter.
(see the man page 
.I x11basic(1)
and
.I doocs(3)
).


.SH COMMANDLINE OPTIONS
.P
.SS \ <file>
load and run script <file>
.br
.SS \-l <file>
only load script, do not execute
.br
.SS \--eval <expression>
evaluate expression
.br
.SS \-e <command>
execute command
.br
.SS \-version
shows version, program and other information and exits
.SS -h --help
print a short help
.SS --help <topic>
print help on topic
.SS --daemon
daemon mode

For detailed help and description of the implemented basic commands take a 
look at the README file which comes with the X11Basic package. There is also a 
full users manual available as *.pdf file on the homepage.

.SH INTERACTIVE USE
If no options are given on the command line, 
.B doocsxbasic
will run interactivly.

A Prompt will be displayed and any command can be typed in. It will be
excecuted immediately after pressing return or enter. The interpreter uses the 
.B readline(3) 
library. So the input is buffered and can be edited using the up and down 
arrows on the keyboard.
Readline offers editing capabilities while the user is
entering the line. By default, the line editing commands
are similar to those of emacs. 
 
.B To quit program
simply enter 
.IR quit
or press 
.IR CTRL-C.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
doocsxbasic testme.bas
doocsxbasic -e 'alert 1,"Hello world !",1," OK ",b'
doocsxbasic --eval 1+3-4*doocsget("TTF.VAC/PENNING/GLOBALS/HEMAGEN")
doocsxbasic --help "*doocs*"
.fi

You can find many sample programs in the X11-Basic packages. For a description
of the X11-Basic language please also see the X11-Basic documentation and or
man-pages. Her we will only describe the modifications of doocsxbasic compared to
the regular x11basic interpreter (Note that all 
.B tine(3) 
functions are also includes in doocsxbasic. So Please also refer to the 
.B tinexbasic(1)
man page.)


.SH Doocsxbasic as shell:
X11-Basic programs can be excecuted like shell scripts.
If the doocsxbasic interpreter was installed in 
.I /bin/
any X11-Basic program with
.nf
 #!/bin/doocsxbasic
.fi
in the first command line can be excecuted directly.

.SH The X11-Basic Language extentions for DOOCS

Das Programm mit Kontrollsystemanbindung nennt sich DOOCSXBASIC. Diese Version
Benutzt die DOOCS-Bibliothek der DESY-Datenbank. Alle Parameter sind zuganglich (sofern freigeschaltet) und werden
mittels RPC-Protokoll von den ensprechenden Servern erfragt. 

DOOCSXBASIC erlaubt ab Version 1.14 auch das Programmieren eines eigenen
Servers.

.SS DOOCS facility,device,location,property name convention

Die Zugriffe zu den Parametern erfolgen ueber einen eindeutigen Namen, 
der aus Facilitynamen (Beschleuniger bz. Subkomponente), Devicename, Location 
und Propertyname besteht. Die Syntax ist wie folgt:

.nf
FACILITY/DEVICE/LOCATION/Property
.fi

e.g.

.nf
a=doocsget("TTF.VAC/PENNING/SEDAC/AMPLITUDE")
.fi

.SS DOOCS Commands

.nf
DOOCSBROADCAST <var>          -- **** not yet implemented
DOOCSCALLBACK <var>,callback  -- link a callback procedure to a variable
DOOCSEXPORT <var>[,...]       -- list of variables to be exported by server
DOOCSMONITOR <var>[,callback] -- **** not yet implemented
DOOCSPUT t$,???[,...]         -- set a value (client)
DOOCSSERVER [name$]           -- initialize and register a Server
DOOCSSET t$,???[,...]         -- same as doocsput
.fi

.SS DOOCS functions
.nf
a=DOOCSGET(p$)       -- get a single value (client)
a=DOOCSSIZE(p$)      -- get the size of this property (client)
a=DOOCSTYP(p$)       -- get the type of this property (client)
a=DOOCSTIMESTAMP(p$) -- get the timestamp of the last change of this property (client)
t$=DOOCSGET$(p$)     -- get a single text value (client)
t$=DOOCSINFO$(p$)    -- get the properties comment (client)
t$()=DOOCSNAMES(p$)  -- get a list of known device, location or property names
a()=DOOCSVGET(p$)    -- get a vector/array (client)
t$()=DOOCSVGET$(p$)  -- get a vector/array if strings (client)
.fi

.SS DOOCS system variable
.nf
a=CCSERR           -- DOOCS or TINE error code in case of errors
.fi


.SS Client application

Data acquistion can either be synchronous (e.g. doocsget)  where execution is
blocked until a call completes, or asynchronous  (e.g. doocsmonitor) where the
results of a call are given to a callback routine upon completion.  Data  can
also be 'monitored' asynchronously either at a supplied polling rate or  upon
data change.  

.B Get the value of a Propery from a server

.nf
.I a=doocsget("<Parameter>")
.I a$=doocsget$("<Parameter>") 
.fi


Return value is the actual value of the parameter. In case of an error, zero 
is returned (or the string "<ERROR>").

.B Get the value of an Array Propery from a server

.nf
.I a()=doocsvget("<Parameter>" [, <number of values>[,<offset>]])
.I b$()=doocsvget$("<Parameter>" [, <number of values>[,<offset>]])
.fi

The specified number of values is returned as an array.
If an offset was specified, the array starts at this index.
Das Ergebnis wird einem Feld zugewiesen, welches ggf. umdimensioniert wird. 
Wird die Anzahl der Werte nicht angegeben, so wird der gesamte Vektor gelesen.
Der erste Eintrag des Property-Vektors findet sich dann in a(0). Der letzte in
a(n-1).


.B Write a value to a Parameter

.nf
.I doocsput Parameter$, value
.I doocsput Parameter$, text$
.I doocsput Parameter$, array()
.fi

If write access to the parameter is granted, the parameter is set to 
(overwritten with)  the specific value.

.B Parameter-Vektor setzen

.nf
.I doocsvput Parameter$, Werte()[,n[,o]] 
.I doocsvput Parameter$, Werte$()[,n[,o]]
.fi

Der angebene Parameter wird auf die angebenen Werte gesetzt. n=Anzahl der zu
setzenden Werte, o=Offset.


.B Query maximal number of values of a parameter 

.I s=doocssize("<Parameter>")

Return value is the number of values in this parameter.
If the parameter is of type STRING, the length of the 
string is returned.
In case of an error, zero is returned and 
.I ccserr 
is set.

.B Queryn type of a parameter 

.I s=doocstyp("<Parameter>")

Return value is the type of the parameter.
Following Values are possible:
.nf
  0 --- DATA_NULL        0
  1 --- DATA_INT         1
  2 --- DATA_FLOAT       2
  3 --- DATA_STRING      3
  4 --- DATA_BOOL        4
  5 --- DATA_STRING16    5
 10 --- DATA_YT         10
 11 --- DATA_XYT        11
 12 --- DATA_TDS        12
 13 --- DATA_XY         13
 14 --- DATA_IIII       14
 15 --- DATA_IFFF       15
 16 --- DATA_USTR       16
 17 --- DATA_FIS        17
 18 --- DATA_TTII       18
 19 --- DATA_SPECTRUM   19
 20 --- DATA_XML        20
 21 --- DATA_XYZS       21
100 --- DATA_A_FLOAT   100
101 --- DATA_A_TDS     101
102 --- DATA_A_XY      102
103 --- DATA_A_USTR    103
104 --- DATA_A_FIS     104
105 --- DATA_A_INT     105
106 --- DATA_A_BYTE    106
107 --- DATA_A_TDSi    107
108 --- DATA_A_XYZS    108
109 --- DATA_MDA_FLOAT 109
.fi
In case of an error, zero is returned and 
.I ccserr 
is set.

.B Query timestamp of latest parameter change 

.I s=doocstimestamp("<Parameter>")

Return value is the unix-timestamp of the parameters latest change.
In case of an error, zero is returned and 
.I ccserr 
is set.


.B Query parameter information

.I a$=doocsinfo$("<Parameter>")

Return value is a string which contains some useful information about this parameter.
In case of an error, "<ERROR>" is returned and 
.I ccserr 
is set.

.B Query parameter names

.I nam$()=doocsnames$(pattern$)

Returns a string array with a list of names which match the pattern. 
The only wildcard allowed is the "*",

.SS Server application

A simple DOOCS server can look like this:

.nf
doocsexport a,b,c
doocsserver "MYSERVER"
do
  oa=a
  pause 0.1
  if a<>oa
    print "Variable has changd: ",a
  endif
  exit if a=13
loop
quit
.fi


.B Server registration

.I DOOCSSERVER [name$]

Registers the server under the location name name$ at the equipment name server. 


.B Export Properties

.I DOOCSEXPORT <var1>[,<var2>,...]

Bestimmt, welche X11-Basic Variablen vom Server exportiert werden sollen. 
Der Inhalt dieser Variablen kann dann von den Clients gelesen oder veraendert
werden.  

.I DOOCSCALLBACK <var>,callback

Sets a callback procedure which will be called after the variable var has 
been changed by a client.

.nf
doocsexport a,b,c
doocsserver "MYSERVER"
doocscallback a,calback
do
  pause 0.1
  exit if a=13
loop
quit
procedure callback
  print "Variable has changd: ",a
return
.fi



.SS Variables

There is one new variable:

.I ccs_err
which holds the TINE error code after a command excecution. 

The interpretation of these error codes is as follows:

.nf
  0 ERR_NONE
100 ERR_RPC
101 ERR_ILL_SERVICE  
102 ERR_RPC_TO       
103 ERR_ENS          
104 ERR_ILL_MON      
105 ERR_ILL_PROTOCOL 
106 ERR_EPICS_CALL   
107 ERR_EPICS_UNSUP  
108 ERR_NO_EPICS     
109 ERR_EPICS_UNSUP_DAT 
110 ERR_UNSUP_DAT    
111 ERR_DIFF_DAT     
112 ERR_OPT          
113 ERR_RO_OPT       
114 ERR_ILL_TYPE     
115 ERR_STALE_DATA   
116 ERR_OFFLINE      
117 ERR_TMO          
118 ERR_NO_DATA      
119 ERR_ENS_NO_DATA  
120 ERR_FAULTY_CHANS 
121 ERR_SHMEM        
.fi



.SH Configuration

A doocs control system application will need to make use of certain 
configuration settings. A pure client application for instance will need to be
able to resolve addresses for the servers it needs to talk to. A server
application needs to identify itself and potentially change certain parameters
away from their default settings.

Besides direct configuration in the program code, there are some files which
hold information. The Location of the files are set by Environment variables.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

If csv files are used to configure a tine server (normally the case) then  the
server application must know where to look for the relevant files.  Client
applications as well as server applications need to find the equipment name
server(s). The address of the configured equipment name server is typically
contained in a csv file named 'cshosts.csv'. The application will look in the
working directory for this file unless the environment variable TINE_HOME is
set to point to the default location.

(refer to the 
.B doocs(3) 
man page)

.I ENS_HOST
=mskpc14


.SH FILES

(refer to the 
.B doocs(3) 
man page)


.SH VERSION
Page was created for V.1.14
.SH BUG REPORTS

If you find a bug in the X11-Basic interpreter or the DOOCS-Implementation, 
you should report it. But first, you should make sure that it really is
a bug, and that it appears in the latest version of the
DOOCS-X11-Basic package that you have.

Once you have determined that a bug actually exists, mail a
bug report to kollo@users.sourceforge.net. If you have a fix,
you are welcome to mail that as well! Suggestions may 
be mailed to the X11-Basic mailing list on 
www.sourceforge.net/projects/x11-basic  or posted to the bug
tracking system.

Comments and  bug  reports  concerning  this  manual  page
should be directed to kollo@users.sourceforge.net.
.SH BUGS
Still some bugs
.SH AUTHOR
Markus Hoffmann <kollo@users.sourceforge.net>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997-2007 Markus Hoffmann <kollo@users.sourceforge.net>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation;
either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be
useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied
warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more
details.
.SH SEE ALSO
x11basic(1), xbasic(1), doocs(3), tine(3),  readline(3), xbc(1)
