.TH FBXBASIC 1 04-Jan-2019 "Version 1.27" "X11-Basic"
.SH NAME
fbxbasic \- The BASIC language interpreter and shell, framebuffer version
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fbxbasic
[\fB\-\-framebuffer\fR \fI<device>\fR]
[\fB\-\-eval\fR \fIexpression\fR]
[\fB\-e\fR \fIcommand\fR]
[\fB\-l\fR]
[\fI<filename>\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION

X11-Basic is a dialect of the BASIC programming language with graphics
capability.

.B fbxbasic 
is the framebuffer version of the X11-Basic interpreter. 
It excecutes BASIC programs, which 
usually have the extension 
.I .bas
or 
.I .xbas\fR.
.PP
The base functionallity is exactly the same as the (normal, X11/X.org version) of
X11-Basic. Please also read the man page of \fIxbasic(1)\fR.
.PP
.B fbxbasic
is independent of the X.org installation and can run without, though
supporting all graphics commands of the language. 
.PP
To show graphics on the screen, 
.B fbxbasic
trys to open a framebuffer device, 
supported by the operating system. By default 
.I /dev/fb0
is opened, but you can also specify a specific device with the 
.B \-\-framebuffer 
option (see below).
.PP 
Mouse and keyboard input is also supported by corresponding raw devices which
can be specified via the commanline options 
.B \-\-mouse 
and
.B \-\-keyboard \fR.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \ \fI<file>\fR
load and run BASIC program \fIfile\fR.
.TP
.BR \-l " " \fIfile\fR
only load script, do not execute.
.TP
.BR \-\-eval " " \fIexpression\fR
evaluate expression.
.TP
.BR \-e " " \fIcommand\fR
execute command.
.TP
.BR \-\-framebuffer " "  \fI<device>\fR
specify framebuffer device to be used for graphics.
.TP
.BR \-\-mouse " " \fI<device>\fR
specify mouse input device to be used.
.TP
.BR \-\-keyboard " " \fI<device>\fR
specify keyboard input device to be used.
.TP
.BR \-\-version
shows version, program and other information and exits.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
print a short help.
.TP
.BR \-\-help " " \fItopic\fR
print help on topic.
.TP
.BR \-\-daemon
daemon mode
.TP
.BR \-\-quitonend
changes the behaviour of the interpreter such that it quits after the program 
has finished. 
The direct mode / interactive mode will not be entered.
.PP
For detailed help and description of the implemented basic commands take a look
at the README file which comes with the X11-Basic package. There is also a full
users manual available as *.pdf file on the homepage.

.SH INTERACTIVE USE
If no options are given on the command line, 
.B fbxbasic
will run interactivly.

A prompt will be displayed and any command can be typed in. It will be excecuted
immediately after pressing return or enter. The input is buffered and can be
edited using the up and down arrows on the keyboard.

.B To quit the program
simply enter 
.IR quit
or press 
.IR CTRL-C.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
fbxbasic testme.bas
fbxbasic testme.b
fbxbasic --framebuffer /dev/fb0 -e 'alert 1,"Hello world !",1," OK ",b'
.fi

.SH The X11-Basic Language

For a complete language reference of X11-Basic please refer to the manual.
You should be able to find one at
.I http://x11-basic.sourceforge.net/x11basic.html


You can find additional sample programs in 
.I /usr/share/doc/packages/X11Basic/examples.


.SH The X11-Basic Language

For a complete language reference of X11-Basic please refer to the manual.
You should be able to find one at
.I http://x11-basic.sourceforge.net/x11basic.html


.SH VERSION
This page was created for V.1.27

.SH BUG REPORTS

If you find a bug in the X11-Basic interpreter, you should report it. But first,
you should make sure that it really is a bug, and that it appears in the latest
version of the X11-Basic package that you have.

Once you have determined that a bug actually exists, mail a bug report to
kollo@users.sourceforge.net. If you have a fix, you are welcome to mail that as
well! Suggestions may be mailed to the X11-Basic mailing list on 
www.sourceforge.net/projects/x11-basic or posted to the bug tracking system.

Comments and bug reports concerning this manual page should be directed to
kollo@users.sourceforge.net.

.SH AUTHOR
Markus Hoffmann <kollo@users.sourceforge.net>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997-2019 Markus Hoffmann <kollo@users.sourceforge.net>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, 
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; 
without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

.SH SEE ALSO

http://x11-basic.sourceforge.net/

/usr/share/doc/x11basic/

xbasic(1), ybasic(1), xbc(1), xbbc(1), bas211basic(1)
