.TH gui2bas 1 19-Sep-2004 "Version 1.11" "GUI-File to X11-Basic converter"
.SH NAME
gui2bas  \- GUI-File to X11-Basic converter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gui2bas
.RI "[ " option " ] " <filename>

.SH DESCRIPTION

X11-Basic is a dialect of the BASIC programming language with graphics
capability that integrates features like shell scripting, cgi-Programming and 
full graphical visualisation into the easy to learn basic language on modern 
computers.

X11-Basic uses a Graphics User Interface which is very similar to the ATARI ST
TOS/GEM  implementation. The *.gui file format, which is basically an ASCII
representation of the ATARI ST recource files (*.rsc), can be converted to
X11-Basic code, which then can handle message boxes and forms. For conversion
of ATARI ST recource files to *.gui Files see
.I rsc2gui(1).

.IR gui2bas
can be used to make X11-Basic template programs out of gui Files, which
represent the  Object structure of the Graphical User Interface which is
implemented into X11-Basic..

.B For a desciption of the X11-basic language and usage of the interpreter see
.I xbasic(1).

.SH The GUI file format

The *.gui file consists of Lines and Blocks which specify objects and their 
hirarchical dependencies.

The generic Format of such an object is:

label: TYPE(variables)

The label is optional and gives the object a name. 
Depending on TYPE of the object, one or more variables are given as a comma 
separated list in brackets. 

Each Object may start a block with '{' at the end of the line. Inside this block 
there might be one or more objects given which then are considered as sub-objects 
of the one whichopened the block. The block will be closed by a '}' in a single line.


Example:

.nf
BOX(X=0,Y=0,W=74,H=14, FRAME=2, FRAMECOL=1, TEXTCOL=1, BGCOL=0, PATTERN=0, TEXTMODE=0, STATE=OUTLINED+) {
    BOXTEXT(X=2,Y=1,W=70,H=1, TEXT="Preferences ...", FONT=3, JUST=2, COLOR=4209, BORDER=65535, STATE=OUTLINED)
    STRING(X=2,Y=3,W=17,H=1, TEXT="Interface Device:", FONT=3, JUST=2, COLOR=4209)
    STRING(X=2,Y=4,W=7,H=1, TEXT="Breite:", FONT=3, JUST=2, COLOR=4209)
    STRING(X=2,Y=5,W=7,H=1, TEXT="Länge:", FONT=3, JUST=2, COLOR=4209)
    STRING(X=35,Y=4,W=7,H=1, TEXT="bis", FONT=3, JUST=2, COLOR=4209)
    STRING(X=35,Y=5,W=7,H=1, TEXT="bis", FONT=3, JUST=2, COLOR=4209)
  devtext: FTEXT(X=20,Y=3,W=30,H=1,COLOR=4513,FONT=3,BORDER=1,TEXT="/dev/ttyS0", PTMP="_______________________________________",PVALID="XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX", FLAGS=EDITABLE)
  br1:    FTEXT(X=20,Y=4,W=12,H=1,COLOR=4513,FONT=3,BORDER=1,TEXT="N59:00:00.00", PTMP="____________",PVALID="XXXXXXXXXXXX", FLAGS=EDITABLE)
  br2:    FTEXT(X=40,Y=4,W=12,H=1,COLOR=4513,FONT=3,BORDER=1,TEXT="N59:00:00.00", PTMP="____________",PVALID="XXXXXXXXXXXX", FLAGS=EDITABLE)
  lon1:   FTEXT(X=20,Y=5,W=13,H=1,COLOR=4513,FONT=3,BORDER=1,TEXT="E009:00:00.00", PTMP="_____________",PVALID="XXXXXXXXXXXXX", FLAGS=EDITABLE)
  lon2:   FTEXT(X=40,Y=5,W=13,H=1,COLOR=4513,FONT=3,BORDER=1,TEXT="E009:00:00.00", PTMP="_____________",PVALID="XXXXXXXXXXXXX", FLAGS=EDITABLE)
  ok:     BUTTON(X=65,Y=4,W=7,H=4, TEXT="OK", FLAGS=SELECTABLE+DEFAULT+EXIT)
  cancel: BUTTON(X=65,Y=9,W=7,H=4, TEXT="CANCEL", FLAGS=SELECTABLE+EXIT+LASTOB)
}
.fi
Comments are indicated by a '#' at the beginning of a line.

.SH Filenames

gui2bas processes input files with extention .gui. The default 
output filename is b.bas.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-o " file
Place output in file \c
.I file\c
\&.  

.Sp
If you do not specify `\|\c
.B \-o\c
\&\|', the default is to use
`\|\c
.B b.bas\c
\&\|'

.SS \--version
shows version, program and other information and exits
.SS -h --help
print a short help

For detailed help and description of the implemented basic commands take a 
look at the README file. 


.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
gui2bas demo.gui
    produces an output file b.bas

.fi

.SH The GUI File to X11-Basic converter
Actually this converter is not yet complete. Further improvenents may 
be applied in future. 

.SH VERSION
Page was created for V.1.11
.SH BUG REPORTS

If you find a bug in the GUI-File to X11-Basic converter, you should
report it. But first,  you  should make sure that it really is
a bug, and that it appears in the latest version of the
X11-Basic package that you have.

Once  you have determined that a bug actually exists, mail a
bug report to kollo@users.sourceforge.net. If you have a fix,
you  are  welcome  to  mail that as well!  Suggestions  may 
be  mailed  to the x11-basic mailing list on 
www.sourceforge.net/projects/x11-basic  or posted to the bug
tracking system.

Comments and  bug  reports  concerning  this  manual  page
should be directed to kollo@users.sourceforge.net.
.SH BUGS
Still some bugs
.SH AUTHOR
Markus Hoffmann <kollo@users.sourceforge.net>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997-2004 Markus Hoffmann <kollo@users.sourceforge.net>

This program is free software;  you  can  redistribute  it
and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public
License as published  by  the  Free  Software  Foundation;
either  version  2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that  it  will  be
useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied
warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS  FOR  A  PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.   See  the  GNU  General  Public License for more
details.
.SH SEE ALSO
xbasic(1), rsc2gui(1)
