.TH bas2x11basic 1 19-Sep-2003 "Version 1.09" "ATARI/TOS Resources to X11-Basic GUI converter"
.SH NAME
rsc2gui \- ATARI/TOS Resources to X11-Basic GUI converter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rsc2gui
.RI "[ " option " ] " <filename>

.SH DESCRIPTION

X11-Basic is a dialect of the BASIC programming language with graphics
capability that integrates features like shell scripting, cgi-Programming and
full graphical visualisation into the easy to learn basic language on modern
computers.

X11-Basic uses a graphical user interface (GUI) which is very similar to the
ATARI ST TOS/GEM implementation. The *.gui file format, which is basically an
ASCII representation of the ATARI ST recource files (*.rsc), can be converted to
X11-Basic code, which then can handle message boxes and forms. (see 
.I gui2bas(1).

.IR rsc2gui
can be used to convert ATARI ST recource files to *.gui files.


.SH Filenames

rsc2gui processes input files with extention .rsc. The default output filename
is b.gui.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-o " file
Place output in file \c
.I file\c
\&. This applies regardless to whatever
sort of output rsc2gui is producing.
.Sp
If you do not specify `\|\c
.B \-o\c
\&\|', the default is to use
`\|\c
.B b.gui\c
\&\|'

.SS \--version
shows version, program and other information and exits
.SS -h --help
print a short help

For detailed help and description of the implemented basic commands take a 
look at the README file. 


.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
rsc2gui 1st_word.rsc
 produces an output file b.gui

rsc2gui 1st_word.rsc -o newname.gui
 produces an output file newname.gui
.fi


.SH VERSION
Page was created for V.1.09

.SH BUG REPORTS  

If you find a bug in the ANSI Basic to X11-Basic converter, you should report
it. But first, you should make sure that it really is a bug, and that it appears
in the latest version of the X11-Basic package that you have.

Once you have determined that a bug actually exists, mail a bug report to
kollo@users.sourceforge.net. If you have a fix, you are welcome to mail that as
well! Suggestions may be mailed to the X11-Basic bug tracking system.

Comments and bug reports concerning this manual page should be directed to
kollo@users.sourceforge.net.

.SH AUTHOR
Markus Hoffmann <kollo@users.sourceforge.net>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997-2003 Markus Hoffmann <kollo@users.sourceforge.net>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

.SH SEE ALSO
xbasic(1)
