.TH TINEX11BASIC 1 10-Aug-2004 "Version 1.13" "X11-Basic"
.SH NAME
tinexbasic \- Basic interpreter for TINE (Three-fold Integrated Networking 
Environment)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tinexbasic
[--eval <expression>] [-e <command>] [-l] [<filename>]

.SH DESCRIPTION

X11-Basic is a dialect of the BASIC programming langage with graphics 
capability that integrates fratures like shell scripting, cgi-Programming and 
full graphical visualisation into the easy to learn basic language on modern 
computers.

TINE is a multi-platform multi-protocol multi-control system architecture
allowing client-server, publisher-subscriber, and producer-consumer data 
exchange in any variation.

Tinexbasic is a modification which combines the TINE functionality with the
X11-Basic interpreter.
(see the man page 
.I x11basic(1)
and
.I tine(3)
).


.SH COMMANDLINE OPTIONS
.P
.SS \ <file>
load and run script <file>
.br
.SS \-l <file>
only load script, do not execute
.br
.SS \--eval <expression>
evaluate expression
.br
.SS \-e <command>
execute command
.br
.SS \-version
shows version, program and other information and exits
.SS -h --help
print a short help
.SS --help <topic>
print help on topic
.SS --daemon
daemon mode

For detailed help and description of the implemented basic commands take a look
at the README file which comes with the X11Basic package. There is also a full
users manual available as *.pdf file on the homepage.

.SH INTERACTIVE USE
If no options are given on the command line, 
.B tinexbasic
will run interactivly.

A Prompt will be displayed and any command can be typed in. It will be
excecuted immediately after pressing return or enter. The interpreter uses the 
.B readline(3) 
library. So the input is buffered and can be edited using the up and down 
arrows on the keyboard.
Readline offers editing capabilities while the user is
entering the line. By default, the line editing commands
are similar to those of emacs. 
 
.B To quit program
simply enter 
.IR quit
or press 
.IR CTRL-C.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
tinexbasic testme.bas
tinexbasic -e 'alert 1,"Hello world !",1," OK ",b'
tinexbasic --eval 1+3-4*tineget("GLOBALS[HEMAGEN]")
tinexbasic --help "*tine*"
.fi

You can find many sample programs in the X11-Basic packages. For a description
of the X11-Basic language please also see the X11-Basic documentation and or
man-pages. Her we will only describe the modifications of tinexbasic compared to
the regular x11basic interpreter. 

.SH Tinexbasic as shell:
X11-Basic programs can be excecuted like shell scripts.
If the tinexbasic interpreter was installed in 
.I /bin/
any X11-Basic program with
.nf
 #!/bin/tinexbasic
.fi
in the first command line can be excecuted directly.

.SH The X11-Basic Language extentions for TINE

It is obviuos why we want to use tinexbasic (with a simple basic dialect) in
addition to the MATLAB(TM) scrips. n&auml;mlich dort, wo kleinere Aufgaben
erledigt werden m&uumlssen, f&uuml;r die keine extra MATLAB-Lizenz beschafft
werden kann. So lassen sich beliebig viele X11-BASIC-Programme auf beliebig
vielen Rechnern starten. X11-BASIC hat die Funktionalit&aumlt eines einfachen
BASIC-Interpreters, der besonders an die UNIX-Umgebung angepasst ist. Die
WINDOWS-9x/NT Version ist deshalb noch nicht vollst&auml;ndig angepasst. 
Zus&auml;tzlich stehen viele Low-Level-Grafikbefehle zur Verf&uuml;gung, die
sogar die Programmierung einer eigenen grafischen Benutzerschnittstelle
erlauben.

Das Programm mit Kontrollsystemanbindung nennt sich TINEXBASIC. Diese Version
Benutzt die TINE-Bibliothek der DESY-Datenbank. Alle Parameter sind zuganglich
(sofern freigeschaltet) und werden mittels RPC-Protokoll von den ensprechenden
Servern erfragt. TINEXBASIC erlaubt ab Version 1.11 auch das Programmieren
eines eigenen Servers.


.SS TINE server,device,property name convention

Die Zugriffe zu den Parametern erfolgen ueber einen eindeutigen Namen, der aus
Servername, Devicename und Propertyname besteht. Die Syntax ist wie folgt:

.nf
SERVER/DEVICE[Property]
.fi

e.g.

.nf
a=tineget("LMBDAC8/#0[AMPLITUDE]")
.fi


.SS TINE commands

.nf
TINEBROADCAST <var>          -- broadcast a variable (server)
TINECYCLE                    -- excecute TINE engine (80 ms) (server)
TINEDELIVER <var>[,...]      -- immediately deliver variables to all clients listening
TINEEXPORT <var>[,...]       -- list of variables to be exported by server
TINELISTEN <var>[,callback]  -- receives a broadcasted variable
TINEMONITOR <var>[,callback] -- todo
TINEPUT t$,???[,...]    -- set a value (client)
TINESERVER [,t$,i%]     -- initialize and register a Server
TINESET t$,???[,...]    -- same as tineput
.fi



.SS TINE functions
.nf
a=TINEGET(1)    -- get a single value (client)
a=TINEMAX(1)    -- get the maximum value for this property (client)
a=TINEMIN(1)    -- get the minimum value for this property (client)
a=TINESIZE(1)   -- get the size of this property (client)
a=TINETYP(1)    -- get the type of this property (client)
t$=TINEGET$(1)  -- get a single text value (client)
t$=TINEINFO$(1)   -- get the properties comment (client)
t$=TINEQUERY$(2)  -- get a property from archive server (client)
t$=TINEUNIT$(1)   -- get the properties physical unit (client)
a()=TINEVGET(1)   -- get a vector/array (client)
t$()=TINEVGET$(1) -- get a vector/array if strings (client)
a()=tinehistory(3)-- get values from archive server (client)
.fi

.SS TINE system variable
.nf
a=CCSERR     -- TINE error code in case of errors
.fi

.SS Client application

Data acquistion can either be synchronous (e.g. tineget) where execution is
blocked until a call completes, or asynchronous (e.g. tinemonitor) where the
results of a call are given to a callback routine upon completion. Data can
also be 'monitored' asynchronously either at a supplied polling rate or upon
data change. 

.B Get the value of a Propery from a server</H3>

.nf
.I a=TINEGET("<Parameter>")
.I a$=TINEGET$("<Parameter>") 
.fi

R&uuml;ckgabewert ist der Wert des entsprechenden Parameters. Falls
ein Fehler aufgetreten ist, wird Null zur&uuml;ckgegeben, bzw. bei Zeichenketten die Zeichenkette
"<ERROR>".

.B Vektorparameter (Array) abfragen

.nf
.I a()=TINEVGET("<Parameter>" [, <Anzahl der Werte>[,<offset>]])
.I b$()=TINEVGET$("<Parameter>" [, <Anzahl der Werte>[<Offset>]])
.fi

Die angebene Anzahl an Werten wird als Vektor zur&uuml;ckgegeben. Falls ein
Offset angegeben wird, wird ab dem entsprechenden Eintrag des Vektors gelesen.
Das Ergebnis wird einem Feld zugewiesen, welches ggf. umdimensioniert wird. 
Wird die Anzahl der Werte nicht angegeben, so wird der gesamte Vektor gelesen.
Der erste Eintrag des Property-Vektors findet sich dann in a(0). Der letzte in
a(n-1).


.B Parameter setzen

.nf
.I TINEPUT Parameter$, Wert
.I TINEPUT Parameter$, Wert$
.I TINEPUT Parameter$, Wert()
.fi

Der angebene Parameter wird auf die angebenen Werte gesetzt. Bitte vorsichtig,
damit nicht der Beschleunigerbetrieb gestoert wird. Der Schreibzugriff muss
freigegeben werden.

.B Parameter-Vektor setzen

.nf
.I TINEVPUT Parameter$, Werte()[,n[,o]] 
.I TINEVPUT Parameter$, Werte$()[,n[,o]]
.fi

Der angebene Parameter wird auf die angebenen Werte gesetzt. n=Anzahl der zu
setzenden Werte, o=Offset.

.B Minimum und Maximum eines Parameters abfragen
.nf

.I a=TINEMIN("<Parameter>")
.I b=TINEMAX("<Parameter>")
.fi

Falls ein Fehler auftritt, wird Null zur&uuml;ckgegeben.

.B Maximalzahl der Werte (Vektorlaenge) eines Parameters zur&uuml;ckgeben

.I s=TINESIZE("&lt;Parameter>")

Es wird die Anzahl der Werte zur&uuml;ckgegeben, die f&uuml;r diesen
Parameter definiert ist, zur&uuml;ckgegeben. Falls ein Fehler auftritt,
wird Null zur&uuml;ckgegeben.

.B Werte aus dem Parameter-Archiv erfragen

.I a()=TINEHISTORY("HISTORY/#0[HEMAGEN]",startzeit,stopzeit)

.I startzeit
und 
.I stopzeit 
werden als UNIX-Timestamps angegeben.
Diese Werte (siehe auch 
.B TIMER, 
.B STIMER
) geben Datum und Zeit 
als die Anzahl der Sekunden ab 01.01.1970 00:00 an.

.I a()
ist anschliessend eine 2-dimensionale Matrix, wobei in der Spalte 1
die Zeitstamps und in Spalte 0 die Parameterwerte gespeichert sind.

.I a(i,1)
Zeitwerte,

.I a(i,0) 
Parameterwerte.

.I anz=DIM?(a())/2 
ergibt die Anzahl der gelieferten Werte. 

Bemerkung: Es koennen nur Maximal 8000 Werte zurueckgeliefert werden, deshalb
sollte der Zeitbereich nicht zu gross gewaehlt sein. Groessere Zeitbereiche
muss man in kleinen Haeppchen abfragen.

.B Beliebigen Wert aus dem Parameter-Archiv erfragen

.I a$=TINEQUERY$("HEHISTORY/#0[HEVACS.NAM]",zeit)

Diese Funktion kann einen Parameter oder ein Array aus dem Archiv lesen, wobei ein
Zeitpunkt uebergeben werden kann. Zurueckgeliefert wird immer ein String, er enthaellt alle 
Rueckgabewerte als Byte-Stream, also z.B. einen Float als 4 Byte String. 
Er kann mit 
.I CVS() 
konvertiert werden.

Mit 
.I zeit
wird ein UNIX-Timestamp angegeben.
Diese Werte (siehe auch 
.I TIMER,
.I STIMER
) geben Datum und Zeit 
als die Anzahl der Sekunden ab 01.01.1970 00:00 an.

Bemerkung: Die Groesse des Datenpuffers ist auf 64 kBytes beschraenkt.

.SS Server application

A simple TINE server can look like this:

.nf
TINESERVER "MYSERVER"
TINEEXPORT a,b,c
DO
  oa=a
  TINECYCLE
  IF a<>oa
    PRINT "Variable has changd: ",a
  ENDIF
  EXIT IF a=13
LOOP
QUIT
.fi


.B Server registration

.I TINESERVER name$[,portoffset]

Meldet den Server unter dem Namen name$ an. Ab jetzt ist er in der gesamten 
TINE-Umgebung (definiert durch den ENS) unter diesem Namen bekannt. Optional
kann ein Port-Offset angegeben werden, default ist 0. Jeder Server auf einem
Rechner muss einen anderen Port-Offset haben, sonst funktioniert die Verbindung
nicht.

.B Export Properties

.I TINEEXPORT <var1>[,<var2>,...]

Bestimmt, welche X11-Basic Variablen vom Server exportiert werden sollen. 
Der Inhalt dieser Variablen kann dann von den Clients gelesen oder veraendert
werden. 

.I TINEDELIVER <var1>[,<var2>,...]

Schedules the given properties for immediate delivery to all attached clients.

When clients are attached to a particular property, they have specified a 
polling rate, which defines the maximum latency for receiving updates at the 
client side. This is usually fine. However, if a server knows that important 
data have changed and which properties depend on these data, it can signal the 
scheduler to call the given properties immediately and send the data to all 
attached callers, regardless of their registered polling rates. In this way, a 
server can signal an event to its attached clients.

.B Listen and Broadcast properties

Fuer die Schnelle Daten"ubertragung stellt TINE noch einen zweiten Mechanismus
zur Verf"ugung, welcher MULTICAST-f"ahig ist. Daten"ubertragungsraten bis zu 50
Hz sind m"oglich, sofern die Netzwerkgeschwingikeit dies erlaubt. Nachteil: Es
wird nicht garantiert, dass die Daten auch beim Empfaenger ankommen.

.I TINEBROADCAST <var>

Sendet den Inhalt der Variable var unter ihrem Variablennamen aus. 
TINEBROADCAST MYVAR wird also das Keywort MYVAR fuer eine Datensendung
verwenden. 

.I TINELISTEN <var>[,callback]

Empfaengt den Inhalt der Variable var unter ihrem Variablennamen.
Optional kann eine callback-Prozedur angegeben werden, welche nach Empfang eines
Datums ausgefuehrt wird.

TINELISTEN kann nur funktionieren, wenn auch TINECYCLE verwendet wird. die
maximale Zeit zwischen zwei TINECYCLE Anweisungen sollte 100 ms nicht
ueberschreiten, damit es nicht zu Datenverlusten kommt. 

.B Serveranfragen bearbeiten

Damit Client-Anfragen auch bearbeitet werden koennen, muss der Server abundzu
(moeglichst alle 100 ms) das Kommando

.I TINECYCLE

ausfuehren. 

.SS Variables

There is one new variable:

.I ccs_err
which holds the TINE error code after a command excecution. 

The interpretation of these error codes is as follows:

.nf
 0 "success",
 1 "illegal line number",
 2 "illegal format specification",
 3 "illegal arithmetic expression",
 4 "ambiguous command",
 5 "illegal delimiter",
 6 "attempt to divide by zero",
 7 "working area full",
 8 "nonexistent name",
 9 "wrong variable type",
10 "resources exhausted",
11 "command not properly terminated",
12 "not allocated",
13 "nonexistent line addressed",
14 "illegal data size",
15 "error in IF command",
16 "escape typed",
17 "illegal EDIT command",
18 "illegal ASK command",
19 "hardware operation in progress",
20 "argument list error",
21 "file error",
22 "resort to stream transport",
23 "array dimension error",
24 "square root of neg.number",
25 "data buffer too small",
26 "string too long",
27 "IPX socket error",
28 "net read error",
29 "call not ready",
30 "invalid transport size",
31 "LOGARITHM argument <= 0",
32 "device not connected",
33 "unauthorised action",
34 "hardware error",
35 "illegal equipment number",
36 "illegal property",
37 "value out of range",
38 "not implemented yet",
39 "no such computer",
40 "result string filled",
41 "syntax error",
42 "no such file",
43 "File already exists",
44 "No file space",
45 "Link not open",
46 "remitted data lost",
47 "end of file",
48 "archive in progress",
49 "server name in use",
50 "no such column",
51 "out of client memory",
52 "Defined function area full",
53 "Syntax error in DEFINE command",
54 "illegal $SET command",
55 "String Function failure",
56 "illegal concatenation",
57 "Error in $IF command",
58 "Error in $ASK command",
59 "String expected",
60 "out of local memory",
61 "out of shared memory",
62 "invalid structure tag",
63 "invalid index",
64 "illegal equipment name",
65 "failure in datalink software",
66 "code failure",
67 "bracket missing",
68 "wrong hexadecimal number",
69 "wrong octal number",
70 "illegal character",
71 "illegal relational operator",
72 "command not allowed here",
73 "illegal read/write attempted",
74 "out of server memory",
75 "database not loaded",
76 "illegal command",
77 "resources exhausted",
78 "file not open",
79 "SEDAC error",
80 "no serial SEDAC loop",       /*1..3*/
81 "semaphore error",
82 "driver not installed",
83 "COMx port_not_available",
84 "scanner error",
85 "semaphore blocked",
86 "Non existent Element",
87 "Non existent Fec",
88 "Non existent Client",
89 "Unable to lock the memory",
90 "Server not responding",
91 "Command not posted",
92 "Command not accepted",
93 "operation timeout",
94 "Illegal network protocol",
95 "gpib error",
96 "rs232 error",
97 "operation busy",
98 "connection timeout",
99 "illegal mode",
100 "not owner",
101 "not defined",
102 "net write error",
103 "invalid data",
104 "software error",
105 "access denied",
106 "tcp not supported",
107 "ipx not supported",
108 "tcp host not resolved",
109 "tcp connect error",
110 "tcp socket error",
111 "fpss error",
112 "fpss timeout",
113 "fpss overflow",
114 "link exists",
115 "alarms buffer full",
116 "function not exported",
117 "is switching",
118 "at limit",
119 "get subscription id",
120 "renegotiate contract",
121 "server redirection",
122 "value too high",
123 "value too low",
124 "warn too high",
125 "warn too low",
126 "wait for completion",
127 "cannot select",
128 "has query function",
129 "not signalled",
130 "call redirection",
131 "udp socket error",
132 "mutex error",
133 "data not local"

.fi



.SH Configuration

A tine control system application will need to make use of certain 
configuration settings. A pure client application for instance will need to be
able to resolve addresses for the servers it needs to talk to. A server
application needs to identify itself and potentially change certain parameters
away from their default settings.

Besides direct configuration in the program code, there are some files which
hold information. The Location of the files are set by Environment variables.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

If csv files are used to configure a tine server (normally the case) then the
server application must know where to look for the relevant files. Client
applications as well as server applications need to find the equipment name
server(s). The address of the configured equipment name server is typically
contained in a csv file named 'cshosts.csv'. The application will look in the
working directory for this file unless the environment variable TINE_HOME is
set to point to the default location.


.I TINE_HOME
=/usr/etc/tine/ (for example)

In lieu of this, the addresses of the equipment name servers can also be
supplied via the environment variable TINE_ENS, for instance:

.I TINE_ENS
=131.169.120.41:131.169.120.46


If a server application uses csv configuration files it will look for them in
its working directory unless the environment variable FEC_HOME is set (the
legacy variable FECDB still works as well). For example


.I FEC_HOME
=~/server/database/

will instruct the server to look in the directory for all relevant startup
files. In addition, if the server is maintaining a local history it will use
the FEC_HOME area as a repository unless the variable HISTORY_HOME (legacy:
HISTORYDB) is set (a good idea!).

.I HISTORY_HOME
=/localhome/fecadmin/hepbpm/HISTORY/ (for example)

A server will likewise put its log files inside the FEC_HOME directory unless
the environment variable FEC_LOG is also set. For instance,

.I FEC_LOG
=~/log

The default log depth (before rotating) is 500 lines. This also can be
configured via an environment variable, LOGDEPTH, e.g.

.I LOGDEPTH
=5000

.SH FILES

All Files are csv-Files (comma separated variables) 

.SS TINE Server Startup Configuration CSV Files

We shall discuss the startup .csv files in some detail below. In theory,
tinexbasic
can run fine without using a single startup .csv file (although in
practice you probably will want to make use of some subset of them). The
location of these files is generally given by the environment setting FEC_HOME.
The exception is cshosts.csv, whose location is given by TINE_HOME. This is due
to the fact that a server is momentarily a client to the name server upon
startup.

Most servers will make use of the two .csv files, namely 'cshosts.csv' and
'fecid.csv'. As mentioned above, 'cshosts.csv' is a
configuration file common to the client as well as the server substructure and
serves only to provide the address(es) of the TINE Equipment Name Server(s)
(ENS).

.SS Common Configuration CSV Files

.I cshosts.csv 
the identity and address of the equipment name server (ENS). 
This is a special server which resolves TINE names into server addresses 
and process names, and has nothing to do with the domain name server (dns). 
e.g.

.nf
FecName,Protocol,FecNetwork,FecNode,IPaddr,OS,Description,Location,Hardware,Responsible
ENS#0,3,83a97800,00a0246a3852,131.169.120.41,LINUX,Hera Name Server,Bldg 30a 1st Floor,Watchdog,P.Duval (PKTR)
ENS#1,3,83a97800,0060978f1f5b,131.169.120.46,LINUX,Hera Name Server,Bldg 30a 1st Floor,Watchdog,P.Duval (PKTR)
.fi

o IF MISSING: tinexbasic does not know the identity of the name server 
 and cannot register itself as a server or query the name server for 
 names as a client.
o ALTERNATIVES: 
 3) Clients can fall back on the local database files. If a server 
   is already entered in the name server's database, 
   then it does not need to "plug" itself into the system. 
 4) Addresses can also be entered by hand on the name server or via 
   the Fec administration tool.
o ENVIRONMENT: variable TINE_HOME points to location; if not set the 
 working directory is searched.

.SS FEC-specific Configuration CSV Files

.I ipbcast.csv 
gives the list of IP networks on which the server is to send 
broadcasts. The server can send data to the network as network globals 
(producer-consumer mode) or as a network link (publish-produce). If 
multicast is enabled this will occur via multicast. In addition, the 
data will be broadcasted on the subnets found inside the ipbcast.csv 
file.

.nf
SUBNET
131.169.150.255
131.169.121.255
131.169.120.255
131.169.110.255
131.169.9.255
.fi

o IF MISSING: The server will not honor requests to send data as IP 
 broadcasts.
o ENVIRONMENT: variable FEC_HOME (or FECDB) points to location; if 
 not set the working directory is searched.


.I alias.csv 
gives a list of alias names which the server will honor. If 
present, this list is maintained in a hash table and is checked against 
the requested PROPERTY, the requested DEVICE, and the requested local 
equipment module name.

.nf
NAME,ALIAS
SINE,COSINE
TEST,LINE
SINEDEV_0,DEV0
SINEDEV_2,DEV2
.fi

o IF MISSING: The server will not make use of any alias names.
o ENVIRONMENT: variable FEC_HOME points to location; if not set the 
 working directory is searched.

.I almwatch.csv 
gives a list of properties and value thresholds for setting  value_too_high and
value_too_low alarms. A "warning" threshold  can also be supplied to set
warn_too_high and warn_too_low alarms.

.nf
LOCALNAME,DEVICENAME,PROPERTY,SIZE,FORMAT,SEVERITY,HIGH,LOW,HIGHWARN,LOWWARN
SINEQM,#0,SINE,10,Float,15,500,0,400,10
.fi

o IF MISSING: The server will not automatically check and issue 
 "threshold" exceeded alarms.
o ENVIRONMENT: variable FEC_HOME points to location; if not set the 
 working directory is searched.


.I history.csv 
gives properties that are to be used for in the local archive 
server. e.g.

.nf
Index,Export Name,Local Name,Property,Device,Data Length,Format,Heartbeat,Polling Rate,Archive Rate,Tolerance,Short Depth,Long Depth
1,BPM,BPMEQM,ORBIT.X,WL197,300,float,18000,1000,10,10%,600,1
2,BPM,BPMEQM,ORBIT.Y,WL197,300,float,18000,1000,10,10%,600,1
.fi

o IF MISSING: The server will not maintain any histories in its local 
 archive server.
o ENVIRONMENT: variable HISTORY_HOME (or HISTORYDB) points to 
 location; if not set then FEC_HOME points to location; if still not 
 set the working directory is searched.


.SS Equipment Module-specific Configuration CSV Files

.I <eqm>-alarms.csv 
gives the alarm definitions pertaining to the specified 
equipment function, where <eqm> refers to the 6-character local 
(internal) name. e.g.

.nf
ALARMTAG,ALARMCODE,ALARMMASK,SEVERITY,DATAFORMAT,DATAARRAYSIZE,ALARMTEXT,DEVICETEXT,DATATEXT,URL,ALARMSYSTEM
BPM SEDAC error,79,0,1,short,3,Replace sedac module,BPM Module,"line,crate,subaddress",mst.desy.de/hepbpm/alarms,650
Threshold exceeded,512,0,1,short,14,Beam dump pending,BPM Module,threshold value,mst.desy.de/hepbpm/alarms,650
.fi

o IF MISSING: The FEC has no knowledge of alarm information. You can 
 still set and clear alarms. But all alarms will have severity 0, 
 and an alarm Tag of "undefined".
o ENVIRONMENT: variable FEC_HOME points to location; if not set the 
 working directory is searched.


.SS FEC-specific Security CSV Files

.I users.csv 
gives the list of allowed users with WRITE access to your FEC. e.g.

.nf
USERNAME
HERA_CONSOLE
SMITH
JONES
.fi

This provides a 'soft' security against the accidental changing of  settings
from unauthorized users. It is however easy to circumvent this  security layer.

o IF MISSING: All users have WRITE access to your FEC.
o ENVIRONMENT: variable FEC_HOME points to location; if not set the 
 working directory is searched.

.I ipnets.csv 
gives the list of IP networks (and/or hosts) with WRITE 
access to your server. e.g.
.nf
SUBNET
131.169.150.255
131.169.121.255
131.169.120.255
131.169.110.255
131.169.9.255
.fi

This provides a 'hard' security against the changing of settings from 
unauthorized networks or stations. The list of IP address can refer to an entire
subnet (last byte = '.255') or specific stations.

o IF MISSING: All ip addresses have WRITE access to your FEC.
o ENVIRONMENT: variable FEC_HOME points to location; if not set the 
 working directory is searched.



.SH VERSION
Page was created for V.1.13
.SH BUG REPORTS    

If you find a bug in the X11-Basic interpreter or the TINE-Implementation, you
should report it. But first, you should make sure that it really is a bug, and
that it appears in the latest version of the TINE-X11-Basic package that you
have.

Once you have determined that a bug actually exists, mail a bug report to
kollo@users.sourceforge.net. If you have a fix, you are welcome to mail that as
well! Suggestions may be mailed to the X11-Basic bug tracking system.

Comments and bug reports concerning this manual page should be directed to
kollo@users.sourceforge.net.

.SH AUTHOR
Markus Hoffmann <kollo@users.sourceforge.net>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997-2006 Markus Hoffmann <kollo@users.sourceforge.net>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

.SH SEE ALSO
x11basic(1), xbasic(1), tine(3), readline(3), xbc(1)
