.TH XBBC 1 09-Apr-2007 "Version 1.14" "Linux Basic Compiler"
.SH NAME
xbbc (X11-Basic bytecode compiler) \- X11-Basic bytecode compiler 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xbbc
.RI "[ " option " ] " <filename>

.SH DESCRIPTION

X11-Basic is a comprehensive non-standard Basic interpreter with full X 
capability that integrates fratures like shell scripting, cgi-Programming and 
full graphical visualisation into the easy to learn basic language on moden 
computers.

.IR xbbc
can be used to make bytecode-binaries out of *.bas script-Files. These bytecode 
files can be interpreted by the X11-Basic virtual machine (
.I xbvm(1)
) and they run about 4 to 10 times faster than the interpreted .bas files. Since 
.I xbbc
is a real compiler (compared to the X11-Basic psydo-compiler (
.I xbc
)), some restrictions to the code apply.

.B For a desciption of the X11-basic language and Usage of the interpreter see
.I xbasic(1).

.SH Filenames

Xbbc processes one input file. The Suffix of the input file is usually .bas.
The default output file name is 
.I b.b
but you can specify alternate names with the -o option.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-o " file
Place output in file \c
.I file\c
\&.  This applies regardless to whatever
sort of output xbbc is producing.
.Sp
Since only one output file can be specified, it does not make sense to
use `\|\c
.B \-o\c
\&\|' when compiling more than one input file, unless you are
producing an executable file as output.
.Sp
If you do not specify `\|\c
.B \-o\c
\&\|', the default is to put an executable file
in `\|\c
.B b.b\c
 .
.SS \--version
shows version, program and other information and exits
.SS -h --help
print a short help

For detailed help and description of the implemented basic commands take a 
look at the README file. 


.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
xbbc testme.bas
    produces a bytecode file b.b
xbbc testme.bas -o testme 
    produces a bytecode file testme
.fi

You can find many sample programs in 
.I /usr/share/doc/packages/X11Basic/examples.
.SH The bytecode compiler
Actually this compiler is really a
compiler, all though the bytecode must be interpreted on runtime. 
This interpreter is highly optimized, so that the gain in 
excecution speed is immense. Especially complex formulas are 
speed up by a factor 10.
There is no way to recreate the source code from the bytecode. 
But still the bytecode is platform independant.

.SH VERSION
Page was created for V.1.14
.SH BUG REPORTS       

If you find a bug in the X11-Basic bytecode compiler, you should
report it. But first,  you  should make sure that it really is
a bug, and that it appears in the latest version of the
X11-Basic package that you have.

Once  you have determined that a bug actually exists, mail a
bug report to kollo@users.sourceforge.net. If you have a fix,
you  are  welcome  to  mail that as well!  Suggestions  may 
be  mailed  to the x11-basic mailing list on 
www.sourceforge.net/projects/x11-basic  or posted to the bug
tracking system.

Comments and  bug  reports  concerning  this  manual  page
should be directed to kollo@users.sourceforge.net.
.SH BUGS
Still some bugs
.SH AUTHOR
Markus Hoffmann <kollo@users.sourceforge.net>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997-2007 Markus Hoffmann <kollo@users.sourceforge.net>

This program is free software;  you  can  redistribute  it
and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public
License as published  by  the  Free  Software  Foundation;
either  version  2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that  it  will  be
useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied
warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS  FOR  A  PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.   See  the  GNU  General  Public License for more
details.
.SH SEE ALSO
xbasic(1), xbvm(1), xbc(1)
