.TH XBVM 1 09-Apr-2014 "Version 1.23" "X11-Basic Vitual Machine"
.SH NAME
xbvm (X11-Basic virtual machine) \- X11-Basic bytecode interpreter 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xbvm
.RI "[ " option " ] " <filename>

.SH DESCRIPTION

X11-Basic is a dialect of the BASIC programming language with graphics
capability that integrates features like shell scripting, cgi-Programming and 
full graphical visualisation into the easy to learn BASIC language on modern 
computers.

.IR xbvm
can be used to execute bytecode-binaries which where compiled with 
.I xbbc(1)
 . These bytecode 
files run about 10-20 times faster than the interpreted .bas files. 

.B For a desciption of the X11-Basic language and usage of the interpreter see
.I xbasic(1).

.SH Filenames

Xbvm processes one input file. The Suffix of the input file is usually .b.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-q "
Be quiet and print less debug information 
.BI "\-v "
Be more verbose and print debug information 
.SS \--version
shows version, program and other information and exits
.SS -h --help
print a short help

For detailed help and description of the implemented basic commands take a 
look at the README file coming with the package and the X11-Basic manual. 


.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
xbvm testme.b
xbbc -v testme.b
.fi

You can find many sample programs in 
.I /usr/share/doc/packages/X11Basic/examples.
.SH The virtual machine
The virtual machine is an interpreter for bytecode, which implements a stack 
machine. The bytecode is very compact  and similar to machine code, but still it
is independant of the  actual processor hardware and such very portable. With an
additional small  step it can be compiled to native assembler or machine code.
(For linux this is done by the 
.I xb2c(1) 
translator and 
.I gcc()).

The bytecode interpreter is highly optimized, so that the gain in 
excecution speed is immense. Especially complex formulas are 
speed up by a factor 20.
There is no way to recreate the source code from the bytecode. 

.SH VERSION
Page was created for V.1.19
.SH BUG REPORTS       

If you find a bug in the X11-Basic virtual machine, you should
report it. But first,  you  should make sure that it really is
a bug, and that it appears in the latest version of the
X11-Basic package that you have.

Once  you have determined that a bug actually exists, mail a
bug report to kollo@users.sourceforge.net. If you have a fix,
you  are  welcome  to  mail that as well!  Suggestions  may 
be  mailed  to the x11-basic mailing list on 
www.sourceforge.net/projects/x11-basic  or posted to the bug
tracking system.

Comments and  bug  reports  concerning  this  manual  page
should be directed to kollo@users.sourceforge.net.
.SH BUGS
none are currently known.
.SH AUTHOR
Markus Hoffmann <kollo@users.sourceforge.net>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997-2015 Markus Hoffmann <kollo@users.sourceforge.net>

This program is free software;  you  can  redistribute  it
and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public
License as published  by  the  Free  Software  Foundation;
either  version  2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that  it  will  be
useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied
warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS  FOR  A  PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.   See  the  GNU  General  Public License for more
details.
.SH SEE ALSO
xbasic(1), xbbc(1), xbc(1), xb2c(1)
