.TH YBASIC 1 04-Jan-2019 "Version 1.27" "X11-Basic"
.SH NAME
ybasic \- The X11-Basic bytecode wrapper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ybasic
[\fBfurther options\fR]
.IR <filename>

.SH DESCRIPTION

X11-Basic is a dialect of the BASIC programming language with graphics
capability.

.IR ybasic 
is a wrapper which compiles the given X11-Basic program 
.I <filename> 
to bytecode and then excecutes the X11-Basic interpreter
.B xbasic. 

The basic command-files (programs) 
usually have the extension .bas or .xbas.

Further options will be passed to the X11-Basic interpreter 
.B xbasic
as they are.

.PP
This little trick allows to run the BASIC programs as fast, as if they where 
compiled to bytecode before. With a little overhead of compile time at the 
beginning. The advantage is that you can keep the flexibility of editing the 
programs as if they where normal interpreted scripts.

.SH OPTIONS
The commandline options are the same as for 
.B xbasic .
Please see the man-page 
.I xbasic(1)
for details.
.PP
For detailed help and description of the implemented basic commands take a look
at the README file which comes with the X11-Basic package. There is also a full
users manual available as *.pdf file on the homepage.



.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
ybasic testme.bas
ybasic runfast.bas -f file.dat
.fi



.SH X11-Basic as shell:
X11-Basic programs can also be excecuted like shell scripts.
If the xbasic interpreter was installed in 
.I /bin/ 
any X11-Basic program with
.nf
 #!/bin/xbasic
.fi
or 
.nf
 #!/bin/ybasic
.fi

in the first command line can be excecuted directly.


.SH The X11-Basic Language

For a complete language reference of X11-Basic please refer to the manual.
You should be able to find one at
.I http://x11-basic.sourceforge.net/x11basic.html


.SH VERSION
This page was created for V.1.27
.SH BUG REPORTS

If you find a bug in the X11-Basic interpreter, you should report it. But first,
you should make sure that it really is a bug, and that it appears in the latest
version of the X11-Basic package that you have.

Once you have determined that a bug actually exists, mail a bug report to
kollo@users.sourceforge.net. If you have a fix, you are welcome to mail that as
well! Suggestions may be mailed to the X11-Basic mailing list on 
www.sourceforge.net/projects/x11-basic or posted to the bug tracking system.

Comments and bug reports concerning this manual page should be directed to
kollo@users.sourceforge.net.

.SH AUTHOR
Markus Hoffmann <kollo@users.sourceforge.net>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997-2019 Markus Hoffmann <kollo@users.sourceforge.net>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

.SH SEE ALSO

http://x11-basic.sourceforge.net/

xbasic(1), xbbc(1), x11basic(1), xbc(1)
